All right, guys. We're rolling. Welcome
back to the Low-Carb Consultant podcast.
Today, I'm joined by Professor Thomas
Seyfried, a professor of biology,
genetics, and biochemistry at Boston
College, and one of the leading
researchers studying the metabolic
origins of cancer. He's the author of
the influential book Cancer as a
Metabolic Disease, where he argues that
cancer may be better understood as a
mitochondrial metabolic disease rather
than purely a genetic disease. Professor
Seyfried's work builds on ideas like the
Warburg effect, suggesting many cancer
cells rely heavily on fermentation of
fuels like glucose and glutamine for
energy rather than normal cellular
respiration. Today, we're going to talk
about the metabolic theory of cancer,
the role of nutrition, and ketogenic
metabolic therapy, and how this
perspective could reshape how we think
about prevention and treatment. So,
Professor Seyfried, it's honestly an
honor to have you on here. Pleasure to
meet you. Thank you so much for taking
the time with me. Oh, thanks, Max. It's
nice to be here today. Absolutely. And
there's a bunch I want to get into here
with you. Maybe before we get into all
of the fun stuff,
would you mind giving the listeners just
a real brief background on yourself and
what even gravitated you towards this
research?
Well, you know, you know, I have a
degree
in genetics from the from Illinois State
University and master's degree and PhD
from the University of Illinois.
I I worked at the Department of
Neurology at Yale University for 9 years
as a as a postdoc and and as an
assistant professor of neurology, where
we worked on the genetics of epilepsy,
and we were mapping genes for epilepsy.
I then joined the the biology department
here at Boston College. Uh we were
studying cancer mainly as angiogenesis.
In the '90s in 1990s and early 2000s,
angiogenesis of
abnormal vasculature was big. Uh I I I
have what done a lot of work on on
glycolipid biochemistry, ganglioside
biochemistry.
And uh we had found molecules to stop
angiogenesis.
Uh so, we were mostly doing
angiogenesis, and then we were also
managing epilepsy with um with calorie
restriction and restricted diets and
this kind of thing. And then we found
out those same diets could block
angiogenesis very powerfully.
And uh you know, we were have we were
doing basic biochemistry of brain
cancer. We weren't really interested in
managing brain cancer, but more or less
asking what kind of abnormality in in
glycolipid biochemistry
could be manifested.
And uh you know, you're working on
epilepsy and diet therapies, and next
thing you know, you find out they're
even more powerful against cancer.
And then you ask the mechanisms by which
it works, and it's far more clear how
how calorie restriction and metabolic
therapy work for managing cancer.
Uh it would works for epilepsy, but the
mechanisms are not as clear as they are
for cancer. Cancer is strikingly clear
how it works. And then you say, "Well,
why in the world doesn't anybody know
about this?"
And when you go and talk to people about
it,
uh they walk away. Uh
it's not like in the epilepsy field,
where people are really interested in
the mechanism by which ketogenic diet
metabolic therapy might work. But when
you talk to cancer people,
um they walk away because uh it's a
genetic disease. Why you worrying about
being a metabolic problem? Don't you
understand it's all run by genes?
And you tell them that it's not, and
they turn their back and well, this
can't this guy must be some sort of a
nut.
>> [laughter]
>> And now they have come to know
that, you know,
we're not doing really well don't going
down that path, and and we can do a hell
of a lot better coming down this path.
So, that's where it is today.
Beautiful. So, for people hearing of
your work for the first time,
can you explain the metabolic theory of
cancer before we start kind of getting
into everything?
Well, that was first pointed out by Otto
Warburg. And and and and uh when we were
doing our work in mice,
and we were seeing clear clear
relationships between blood sugar levels
and how fast tumors would grow.
Uh and we were seeing lactic acid. We
were seeing all the things that Warburg
saw.
And then I said, "Well, what happened
with this guy? How come he he appeared
to have an understanding of cancer far
far better than what the current field
has?"
No, Warburg was wrong. His main
hypothesis the field of the wisdom of
the oncology field said, "Oh, no,
Warburg was wrong."
Uh he he he he mitochondria perfectly
healthy in cancer. Uh and and he was
misinterpreting his findings.
So, I said, "Well, okay, let me look at
the mitochondria in cancer." And they're
all damaged. So, I said, "Well, that
seems to be more in support of Warburg's
theory uh than what the field is
saying." So, "Oh, no, Warburg was
absolutely wrong." Now, he was wrong in
certain ways, and we found out the
reasons why he was wrong in some of the
other things.
But he wasn't wrong about mitochondrial
dysfunction as being the origin of
cancer. So, we started doing deeper
dives on mitochondrial number,
structure, and function. And sure
enough, they were they're damaged.
They're not they're not normal.
So, the field is saying, "Oh, no, you
must be wrong because
uh Warburg and we have found that that
cancer cells consume oxygen
at the same rate as some normal cells.
Therefore, they can't have abnormal
oxidative phosphorylation. Therefore,
Warburg was wrong, and Seyfried is
wrong." So, we did all the studies here
in the lab,
and others have done it. We saw we
showed that yes, cancer cells do take in
oxygen. Uh but they're not using it for
ATP.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh Warburg didn't know that either.
So, um we found out they use them for
reactive oxy ROS, reactive oxygen, which
cause the mutations and DNA damage in
the nucleus.
So, then we found out that the all this
stuff that the field is studying is all
downstream epiphenomena, damaged
oxidative phosphorylation, just like
Warburg. But Warburg did not know about
the second major fermentable fuel, which
is the amino acid glutamine.
He made two mistakes. He made he thought
cancer cells take in less oxygen than
normal cells, and therefore their
mitochondria are defective, and they're
fermenting by using lactic acid,
dumping out lactic acid. We found the
same thing.
Except we also found that they're
fermenting a second fuel inside the
mitochondria. This is this is big. So,
there yeah, they're taking in oxygen,
putting out ATP. See, they're perfectly
normal. No, no, they're fermenting. It's
a completely different mechanism
mechanism that's responsible. So, the
the mitochondria are fermenting, and the
cytoplasm is fermenting. They're both
using these fermentable fuels. So, we
did all the the necessary control
experiments to disassociate oxphos from
fermentation metabolism, and the damn
tumor cells are fermenting glucose and
glutamine.
And they're and they're dumping out
lactic acid and succinic acid as waste
products. And the as I said, cancer
cells been telling us for 100 years
lactic acid and succinic acid. Why are
they doing that? Because number one,
they're fermenting sugar into lactic
acid. And number two, they're fermenting
glutamine into succinic acid. And now we
know and then we said, "Well, what
happens if we take away glucose and
glutamine?" Well, they die.
It is So, they said, "Well, that can't
be right." So, I said, "Why don't you
try to grow your cancer cells in fatty
acids and ketones in the absence of
glucose and glutamine?" Well, that's
impossible. They don't grow.
That's right. They don't grow.
>> [laughter]
>> And and they say everybody knows that.
Well, apparently the whole oncology
field doesn't know that. Because if they
did, they would be targeting glucose and
glutamine in the clinic and and giving
people keto elevating ketones. And
nobody's doing that. Because they think
it's a genetic disease. So, they're
chasing It's like a wild goose chase,
chasing genes all over the place, trying
to hope that one of these
new immunotherapies or some of these
toxic poisonous things they use are
going to hope to work. And all we do is
get more and more dead people.
So, it's unbelievable. It is, and I
believe I heard a stat it used to be I
think it was one in four people that
were getting diagnosed with cancer at
some point in their life. Now, I want to
say it's almost one in two people at
some point will be diagnosed with some
form of cancer. Does that ring any
bells? Well, you know,
being diagnosed with cancer is I mean,
they're diagnosing a lot of stage zero
cancers now. You know, people that you
could just you could easily manage those
things without what they're doing. Um
so, you make it look like there's a lot
more. The
the more important issue is how many
people are dying from cancer. That's the
big thing. Uh you know, whether you're
dying if you're diagnosed and you and
and you do well and stuff, we it's how
many people are we are dying each day.
And according to the uh American Cancer
Society, their their one of their big
goals is to log the dead. They keep a
they keep a record of how many people
are dying from all the different types
of cancers.
So, they they just come out this year in
February, 626,000
Americans are predicted to die in 2026
from cancer,
which comes out to 1,700
people per day, or 70 people per hour,
and the numbers go up every year. So,
the more money we raise for cancer
research, the more dead cancer patients
we get. Year in and year out, and
everybody seems I would say everybody,
but the cancer field says we're making
great progress.
Uh and and the American Cancer Society
and the federal government, oh my god,
the the National Cancer Institute. "Oh,
we made so much progress." So, But out
the great progress they made
was anti-smoking campaign from the
1990s.
People stopped smoking. Therefore, the
cancer rate went down. Were there any
new drugs, any new stuff that they they
hammer at you on the television at
night? People stopped smoking. Cancer
death rates Oh, we dropped cancer death
rate by three You didn't. People stopped
smoking. That That dropped the death
rate. You have an abysmal record. You
have an absolute abysmal record. You're
not You're not moving the needle at all
with new drugs. So, it's it's behavioral
changes that people are moving the
needle, not new drugs.
So, if cancer is metabolic, how should
that change the way in which we approach
the treatment?
Well, what do we do right now? We We We
We We use toxic poisons and radiation,
immunotherapies, and all this kind of
stuff. Um they're all based on the
somatic mutation gene theory, most of
them Most of those treatments are based
on a on the on the theory that the
cancer is a genetic disease. So, if it's
not a genetic disease, and we have
massive evidence to show that it can't
be a genetic disease. You have some
cancers that have no mutations. Then you
have these driver mutations in normal
tissues like you and me. We're loaded
with these My God, how do you explain
normal tissues not going
uh uh disregulated in growth, and you
have this driver mutation? Then how do
you explain cancer cells with no
mutations? When you swap nuclei from
cancer cells to normal cells, you get
just the opposite results that you would
have predicted. So, cancer is not a a
genetic disease.
Um that means it and then we've shown it
can't grow without glucose and
glutamine. No cancer has normal normal
structure and function of mitochondria.
Therefore, it's a mitochondrial
metabolic disease. And once you know
that, then you can strategize new
therapies that are based on taking away
the only two major fuels that the tumor
cell needs to grow, and you
simultaneously target those, work
together diet drug combinations, and you
get much much better outcomes and longer
life with quality and and remember, this
is I don't know how many people think
I say we have a cure for cancer.
We don't have I didn't ever said that.
Did you hear me say we have a cure for
cancer? No, I I was going to drop a
quote that I did hear you say, which we
can talk about because I think basically
what you're alluding to is using a using
lifestyle and diet to
to treat cancer. But on the
manage cancer. Yes, manage Yes, yes.
I believe the quote was, and you'll know
exactly what I'm talking about. I
believe it was from the diary of a CEO.
I heard you say cancer is very
preventable. The problem is we're doing
everything we can to induce it.
Well, that that that's true. Not only
induce it, uh if you have it, you you
you turbocharge it by by what you're
doing. So, uh there's there's two things
you got to separate. Number one is the
prevention part of it. Number two is the
management part of it. So, uh you're
absolutely right. Um
I mean, cancer is out of control. It's
going to overtake heart disease here in
the next couple of years. Why Why Why
are we getting so much cancer? And
that's because we're abusing the
mitochondria of our cells. The
mitochondria control the destiny
of our cells. They tell cells when to
grow, when not to grow. They tell you
how long you're going to live on the
planet. Okay? So, they determine your
existence, your metabolic existence,
your state of metabolic homeostasis,
that organelle. And it's not only works
within cells, it works outside cells, it
works through organ systems, it works
through the whole body.
That's the organelle that keeps us
alive. We're We're going to die if we
live long enough
from age old age. He died of natural
causes. What is natural causes? That
mean That means your mitochondria up and
and
crap out. They can't make energy for you
anymore. You reach equilibrium, second
law of thermodynamics.
You You reach equilibrium, you're dead.
But you died by nat- You died naturally.
Now, we can accelerate that uh really
well.
Uh we don't exercise. We're all stressed
out. We're on cell phones all day long
right your face.
Uh people are saying bad things. You're
all upset. You don't exercise. You
food. You don't sleep well at night. And
you accelerate You accelerate entropy,
and you get cancer, chronic disease, all
kinds of other things, and you die
earlier cuz you you increase entropy,
second law of thermodynamics. So,
question here. Basically, what you're
saying is a lot of our modern lifestyle
and our diet choices are basically
contributing to poor mitochondrial
health, therefore
mitochondrial acceleration, and that's
what's basically either killing us early
or giving us cancer at a period of time
in life when we don't necessarily want
it or need it. Would Would that be an
accurate statement Absolutely.
Absolutely. I mean, did you know we have
an ob- obesity epidemic? Have you heard
that?
Yeah, I I think we got a big one,
actually. No, when people say I
You think people really care about
prevention of cancer? If they really
cared, you wouldn't find a fat person
walking around anywhere. So,
>> [laughter]
>> That's a great point.
I mean, let's be honest. Uh
obesity is replacing smoking as a as a
major risk factor for cancer, type 2
diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
dementia, all of the wonderful things
that we have to look forward to in our
new diet and lifestyle.
So, I have a question then.
What is exactly happening
in the mitochondria of a cancer cell?
Well, it's called chronic It's called a
chronic, not acute. Uh and that's what
Warburg said. If you acutely damage your
mitochondria, you will die.
And the fastest way You know what
cyanide is? You know what cyanide is?
>> Yes. You heard the term they drink the
Kool-Aid Kool-Aid, right?
>> Yeah. That was from the Jim Jones thing
where everybody chugged down the
Kool-Aid with the cyanide in it. Um you
know, you die within a couple of minutes
from cyanide. Why do you die so fast
from cyanide? Okay? Because you shut
down oxidative phosphorylation. You shut
down the ability of the mitochondria to
generate energy using oxygen.
It's a It's an irreversible binder of
cyto- of cytochrome c.
Cancer cells, you can pour cyanide in
them, they don't die.
Yeah, because they're not respiring.
They They have bypassed the ability to
get energy using oxygen. So, they get
energy using ancient fermentation
pathways
that existed on the planet two and a
half billion years ago. Don't forget,
life evolved in a dark, oxygenless
environment. And those cells were all
fermenters. They used the fermentation
mechanism to get energy, right? So, it
was When oxygen came into the atmosphere
in a very high We evolved in a hypoxic
environment, which means very low
oxygen. And then when you had the fusion
of one bacteria with another, you had
this eukaryotic cell, which became
metazoan, multicellular, and you and I
are here today as the result of these
evolutionary processes. Otherwise, we'd
still be in in the in a fermentation
metabolism. But But right now, the
cancer cells
are falling back on these They They have
those same pathways. We have them in our
body, and they're very minor pathways.
They're called the
Embden-Meyerhof-Parnas pathway. That's
the ancient fermentation pathway, the
glutaminolysis pathway. The problem is
we're breathing oxygen, and we're making
energy very very efficiently.
Cancer cells are doing
They can They can make energy through
the alternative process of fermentation,
energy without oxygen because they have
gradually adapted
to
replacing
oxidative phosphorylation with what we
call substrate-level phosphorylation.
This is biochemistry stuff. Or or
fermentation metabolism. But if it
happens too quick, the cell dies. You
can't get a cancer cell. So, to get
cancer, it has to be a chronic
interruption of this over time, allowing
the cell to adapt to the fermentation
pathways that are minor in most cells,
but over time become major in the cancer
cell, which means it's going right back
call a call of the wild in in
evolutionary terms. It's going back to
how it originally started using
fermentation metabolism. And as long as
you have the fuels of glucose and
glutamine in the microenvironment, those
cells are going to be very difficult to
kill.
But when you take away the two fuels
driving the fermentation, which is
glucose and glutamine, they now become
super vulnerable to low doses of chemo,
the low-dose radiation, low dose of a
lot of things we're doing. So, we're
making them so weak now, you can use
standards of care to come in and polish
them off. But right now, we're not doing
any of that. We're attacking these cells
while they're at their strongest, and
that poisonous and poisons and things we
give into the people weaken the normal
cells of the body to the point they're
just as miserable metabolically as the
cancer cell. And when you do that,
cancer wins. And that's why we have
1,700 people a day dying from cancer
because we're using the wrong strategy
to kill it.
So,
I was curious to get
what your feeling is around the reaction
to your work from the scientific
community. You touched on this earlier.
When you're talking to other people
in the cancer research community, and
you're
talking about your theory in terms of it
being a metabolic disease. But you said
this earlier, people just turn away or
scoff. Is that because there is too much
money tied up in with the pharmaceutical
industries and around the treatment of
cancer for them to even want to consider
your theory behind it?
Well, it's that and more. Okay. Uh it's
that and more. You have to realize in
the history of of science,
theories
come and go. Some theories are uh last
long time. Other theories can come and
go depending on the new scientific
evidence that comes.
The um
uh the geocentric theory on the
organization of the solar system where
the Earth was the center of the solar
system. That was called the geocentric
theory supported by Aristotle and
Ptolemy.
The Aristotle had the concept that the
earth must be the center of the solar
system. Ptolemy was a mathematician
astronomer
who made all these epicycles deference
and equants all these very extremely
complicated procedures to try to predict
where planets are going to be in the sky
anytime part of the year.
And what lasted eight 1,800 years these
mathematicians and guys were trying to
figure out and they could never
accurately predict where any planet was
going to be. They were doing dipsy doos
and circles in the sky and all kinds of
It was the 1,800 years of doing
this stuff right. And what Copernicus
said, what happens if we replace the
earth with the sun?
Oh my god, the mathematics became a lot
less complicated.
But it but how did they how did they
the system react to Copernicus, Galileo
and
and and Kepler?
Well, they they they Copernicus
released his idea on his deathbed
because he didn't want the fallout.
Galileo was house arrested for
challenging the tenets that the earth
was the center of the solar system and
and Giordano Bruno
an Italian mystic was a big fan of
Copernicus. The Catholic Church stripped
him naked held him upside down and
burned his ass to death in Campo de
Fiori in in Rome. So that's it. You want
to know how systems respond to
challenges? Yeah.
Okay. So it's the same thing with Louis
Pasteur and the germ theory, the same
thing with Darwin Wallace and the and
the theory of evolution. Now we have the
the somatic mutation theory. A
multi-billion dollar industry
>> [laughter]
>> driven on treating cancer with all these
crazy things because they think it's a
genetic disease. What are you going to
say what do you think the industry's
going to wake up and say, oh my bad.
>> [laughter]
>> They're not going to do that.
They're going to fight like hell to keep
their position. So and and don't forget
it's got to be it's revenue generation
first. Patient outcome second. Always
remember that. And you want to know I
get all my information from the Wall
Street Journal. I'm always reading about
all the drugs that are failing and how
many people are being damaged. You got
to love the Wall Street Journal. You
want to know about cancer read the Wall
Street Journal. They get it all the
information you need to know. But then
you have the academic institutions. You
know, they become very famous and strong
by saying cancer is a genetic disease.
The National Cancer Institute has right
on their website cancer is a They they
seem to be ignorant of the fact they're
not looking at the data. What are you
going to say? What are you going to get
up there and push their face in it? I
mean
they they this is a mindset of people.
This is a powerful theory, a powerful
system. It ain't going to turn around
and say, oh my god, we how did we been
so wrong on this? No. I mean you got
career investment in this, you got
paradigm paralysis, institutional
inertia. When when I tell people that I
said even members of my department other
departments Oh no, no it can't be right.
Confirmation bias don't you know
everybody knows it's a genetic disease.
You're coming along you must be some
sort of crazy kook. I said, why don't
you look at the data? You tell me. Oh
no, no I don't have to look at the data
because everybody says it's a genetic
disease. Why should I have to look at
the data? Everybody says it's this. So
they're not looking at the data. They're
not reading it.
And the inertia of the system allow
prevents them from doing that.
>> What do you think it would ultimately
take then to change the inertia of the
system?
I think it has to do whether people want
to make money or see people living.
Mhm.
>> [laughter]
>> You tell me. You tell me, right? Why
don't you go down What what town are you
in? Where what city are you in? I'm in
Austin, Texas. Yeah, go to MD Anderson.
Austin, well you have the University of
Texas there but you got a big MD
Anderson down there in in in in Houston.
You got the
what you have the Moffitt Center in
Florida. You got University of
Pennsylvania. You got the Sloan
Kettering in New York City. You got our
friends down here in Dana-Farber.
You know, they call our stuff fringe
science. So I asked them. I said, did
you look at the data? Did you No, no we
don't have to look at the data. We just
know it's it's not right. Why? You got a
good track record, right? 1,700 people a
day dying from cancer. You're really you
really know what you're doing, right?
And then they say, oh no, we got
millions of cancer patients that we have
so
cure they say cure. They oh survival
after survive success after success
after success.
Do you you have you ever see what
happens to cancer patients when they're
given these toxic poisons? They go bald.
Their
microbiome is blown to hell.
They get
chemo brain.
They get all kinds of stuff damaging
your sacred DNA. You're damaging your
cells. You're damaging your tissues.
They even have a branch of medicine
called cancer survivor medicine. You're
trying to now fix all the damage to your
body after being poisoned and
irradiated. Now this is nuts. So
and they think they have success and
people well he's alive. He would have
been dead. Listen, if you do metabolic
therapy, we're not saying we can cure
you but we can certainly see from all of
the case reports we publish these people
are living a lot longer with a higher
quality of life. I don't know if they're
cured but the idea is they're living
higher quality of life longer without
all the toxic
processes that go into this. So you have
to look back and say to yourself, you
know, make let people make their choice.
You know, the people have to become
educated. Well, I I I will tell you
this. So my dad passed away
of lung cancer in his early 60s. Super
fit guy came out of nowhere. Basically
killed him within 18 months. Now the
treatment
in my opinion
kept him alive a little bit longer
but it was the side effects from the
treatment that he couldn't handle
anymore and once he stopped he was dead
within a matter of months. It they just
the cancer spread so quickly that it
killed him. And then a year later my my
sister-in-law at 20 years old
got ovarian cancer and she died within 6
months. And I took and I took care of
both of them. And so I
I have first-hand experience on how
toxic these drugs are and how
debilitating
they can be
for the person ingesting them. It's
they're horrific to be honest.
>> Okay. So we have a guy with small cell
non-small cell lung cancer. He's out 10
years now and he failed radiation and
chemo and he was given
very little time to live. He's still
alive. We did metabolic Our Greeks are
we have a
We have these clinics in Istanbul,
Turkey, Greece. We have them around the
around the world. We're starting a new
society of metabolic oncology. So
because there are more and more people
are coming in. What we do is with lung
cancer and colon cancer and breast
cancer and pancreatic cancer.
What we do is we take these people and
we put them on a zero carb diet for
about 10 to 14 days slowly getting their
body adapted to the new the new reality
that sugars ain't coming into my body.
And if they're going to be there we're
we're going to make them from internal
metabolites which are then much lower
than they would be if you were ingesting
these. And then what's happening a lot
of these folks are they've got
parasites. They they've got high blood
pressure, hypertension, type two not not
like your father with like perfectly
healthy guy.
You get we get those guys too and
especially lung there's a lot of people
who die from lung cancer never smoked.
But you got to you got to realize that
we're breathing air in all the time that
have particulate matter in it that gets
lodged in one of the
in one of the lung cells leading to a
inflammatory foci in the lung
leading to inflammation, damage to
mitochondria and then disregulated
disregulated cell growth. Okay. So we
have that
and usually when it's first diagnosed
sometimes the guy didn't even know it.
Like oh I didn't know I had this. I'm
feel pretty good. I'm pretty healthy.
And then or he's coughing maybe some
blood. You know, there's different ways
you can test it but he's and when he's
first diagnosed generally he's not on
death's doorstep.
So we take these people and we and we
bring them down into a very low glucose
ketone index. So we're we're pushing
pressure already naturally by that
natural state of the body. And then we
come in with these
parasite drugs.
We discovered
mainly us because we have a big paper
coming out on this
that cancer cell and the parasite use a
common glutamine fermentation pathway.
Can you believe this?
Cancer cell and the parasite use a
common pathway. So we use a parasite
medication take low the lower the
glucose shutting off the the the the the
the the lactic acid fermentation and
then we come in with the parasite
medication and shut off the
glutaminolysis the glutamine
fermentation and we bring
higher level of ketones and fatty Cancer
cells can't switch from these
fermentation fuels to fatty acids or
ketones because their mitochondria bad.
They get a checkmate can't can't make
the switch. Normal cells are switching
over to ketones getting super healthy.
The tumor cells can't make the switch
and we hammer them by taking away the
glucose and glutamine. Now what we see
is generally people live a lot
Do they die? Yes, they still die some
not not not all. But they live so much
longer to a higher quality of life. And
and what we're doing is we're perfecting
dosage timing and scheduling
so that we can improve the health and
well-being of the patient as they go
through the process. So our stuff here
at Boston College what we do is we have
all the natural preclinical systems that
I test everything in and then when I see
what works what diet drug combos work,
exercise and all this stuff then we we
we tell our clinician friends in the
clinics and they start doing it
to their patients and then we publish
the case reports
on this and they say, oh this is like we
have a woman who's out 7 years who had
metastatic breast cancer to her brain or
liver or lungs and everything. And she's
doing really fine. And we're going to
follow up with her. Oh, but that's only
one case. Well, what about the brain
cancer guy that's living? Ah, it's only
one case. What about the lung cancer?
Oh, that's only one case. If I had a
drug with one case and I kept doing all
this stuff, they said, "Oh my god, you
got the most powerful ther- But when
they realize it's a might of might of
it's a it's a it's a metabolic approach
and you can't make a lot of money on it.
They won't touch it with a 10-ft pole.
So So, the question is what are you
interested in? Patient outcome or
revenue generation? You make the choice.
Yeah, that's a powerful statement right
there. And and I wanted to go back and
touch on something that you talking
about
>> One more One more thing. I want to make
one more thing very clear. What we're
finding, and this is really remarkable,
when we get these people into a state of
metabolic
keto ketosis, therapeutic ketosis, we
now can use those toxic chemicals uh
doxorubicin and and uh you know, the red
devil, and you can use all of these
different toxic chemicals, we're finding
you can use much much lower doses of
them. And then they take on a real added
power.
So, you don't it's you can still use
some of the same drugs, but the in the
field they're using it at exorbitant
concentrations. Once the patient is in
nutritional ketosis, radiation,
immunotherapies, these other toxic
drugs, you can lower the dosages and
have more therapeutic benefit when the
patient is in this new metabolic state.
So, we're not throwing out all the
standards of care. We're just learning
how to reuse them. No, and that makes
perfect sense. And I did want to go back
and touch on a distinction here cuz I
feel like this is important and I wanted
you to clarify this.
There's a massive difference between
ketogenic metabolic therapy
and doing keto. Correct? Can you lay out
for the listeners the difference between
the two?
Yeah, well, one is one is uh nutritional
ketosis,
uh determined by a glucose ketone index
that we developed here at Boston
College. And doing keto, you know, I I
don't know what what that means. I'm
doing keto.
Oh, I'm I'm doing a keto. What's your
GKI? I I I don't know. Well, then what
the hell are you talking about doing
keto? You don't know anything.
We can get into low GKI uh eating ribeye
steaks and bacon and eggs and all this
stuff and exercising.
Plant eaters, you know, those guys need
a little bit more uh time.
Uh it's harder to get some of into some
of the low GKI numbers. Pescatarians,
Mediterranean diets, we're we're finding
that we can eat almost anything uh in
uh restricted amounts and bring you into
the state of nutritional ketosis.
Because right now, nobody knows. Uh oh,
I'm doing keto. What does that mean? I'm
doing keto. Okay, what's your GKI? I
have no clue. Well, until you measure
your GKI, you have no clue whether
you're in in nutritional ketosis or not.
So, we have a paper that we have under
under review that shows you how to use
uh the GKI. You get uh one of these
meters, KetoMojo or another meter. You
prick your finger, you take the stick,
you measure it on my glucose, put it in
the meter, push the button, it tells you
what your sugar is.
Squeeze your finger a little bit more,
touch it, get a drop of blood, put the
ketone strip on there, put it in the
meter. Meter reads ketones. Push the
button and it gives you the ratio in
millimolar in the blood of ketones to of
glucose to ketone. So, you know, right
now, most Americans
uh I don't want to say most, but I may
maybe most are in their are in high high
high GKI values, 50 or 60 or even more.
Some of these diabetics are up in 5 600.
You know, that's the zone of death. That
used The longer you stay in that zone,
the greater probability you're going to
have is a a chronic disease.
But if you want to prevent, you got to
be down in like the 20 the in the in the
in the uh yellow zone, which is
prevention. You got to be down in the in
the in the 30 20 30. You know, I got
down to a 10.
You know, I tomahawk ribeyes, bacon and
eggs, ground beef for for a week. Uh and
I got down to 10 after 5 days.
Uh if you want to kill cancer cells, you
got to get below two. That puts you into
these really powerful nutrichi-
nutritional states. Uh there's where the
can- cancer cells get hammered in those
in those uh really low GKI zones. So, in
other words, you're putting yourself
back in the Paleolithic time, as if you
were a Paleolithic guy 400,000 years
ago. A lot of exercise, uh a lot of
foods that are are not going to raise
carbohydrates. So, you're going to be in
a low GKI. Everything is balanced from
micro and macro nutrients. People always
say, "What can I eat?"
Yeah. I don't know. Eat whatever the
hell you want to eat and see what it
does to your GKI. If it stays really
low, then eat that. You know, so or if
it doesn't, don't eat that. I mean, it's
quite simple.
Interesting. So, you're not necessarily
you might I might have missed this.
You're not necessarily measuring or
monitoring the actual ketones. It's more
It more so has to do with the the GKI.
The glucose ketone index. Yeah, but the
GKI is measuring ketones and glucose
together. Got it. Got it. You're
measuring both. And then the lower the
lower the number on the index, Yes. the
better position you are going to put
yourself in to kill cancer cells.
Correct? Uh or prevent cancer or prevent
diabetes or prevent cardiovascular
disease. Yeah.
>> So, uh don't forget our ancient
ancestors,
uh people they chronic diseases did not
exist during Paleolithic time. And
people say, "How do you know?" Because
we uh Albert Schweitzer and other
humanitarian physicians studied these
African and
South American tribes that lived
according to their ways. And cancer and
diabetes and these kinds of things never
existed in these people. They were dying
from infections and disease, you know,
they had malaria, they had different
kinds of stuff. But they weren't dying
from diabetes and this kind of stuff. As
soon as they start
eating the great American diet
lifestyle, BOOM!
>> [laughter]
>> YOU GOT OBESITY, DEMENTIA, CANCER,
all the same crap. Because we didn't
evolve You have to realize now,
it's interesting. You go back in time,
and our ancestors, they weren't living
that way because they wanted to live
that way. You had to run out and kill
deer and eat elephants and all this kind
of stuff. Bash the marrow, eat scoop the
marrow out, you know, all this stuff.
Yeah. They That was their existence.
Can you imagine if they had access to
donuts and and and and pastries and
bread and all the kind of crap that we
have, Twinkies? You throw a bunch of
kill each other for those Twinkies. So,
but they would say this is and and and
it releases dopamine in your brain it's
glucose is an addictive drug. It's like
cocaine. It's like
it's like heroin. Your brain lights up
when you start eating glucose. I mean,
and and all of a sudden, our technology
has advanced so much faster than our
bio- We're still Paleolithic man. Yeah.
Yeah, I know I know the requirement now.
No, I think I think about that all the
time and I think that's one of our big
problems here. Just going off on a
different tangent real quick, but I
think that's one of our problems is our
technology is advancing at such a faster
and more superior rate than our body can
actually evolve. We've got all the
processed food and we when we look at
statistics, before 1950, I believe the
obesity rate was like 1% or something
ridiculously low. Now, it's
Well, we're at 50%. We were allowed to
put high fructose corn syrup into a lot
of the foods. It was cheaper, it was
easier to do that. You know, and we have
lack of exercise. We're
we're stressed out by the by the uh
technologies that we have, all these
electronic technologies. We're getting
bad sleep. Uh we're we're we're doing
all kinds of other things besides uh
eating all this crap food. Uh the term
locavore is people who eat locally grown
foods in their neighborhood. They grow
their own stuff. Yeah. You know, they
they kill chickens. They They live
pretty much like But who has time to do
that? Your kids are screaming, you're
coming home, you sat in traffic for 2
and 1/2 hours on the highway.
Okay, let's go out in the backyard, chop
the head off this chicken, and gut him,
and let's pluck him before we Kids are
screaming, they don't want that. Let's
throw the Let's throw the the burrito in
the microwave.
Right?
Yeah, [laughter]
totally.
So, everybody's everybody's happy,
right?
>> Yeah. Uh
and you stagger away from the table, sit
down and watch a computer game, getting
all freaked out. And then somebody says
some on the phone about how how how
how you badly you look. Next thing, you
can't sleep at night, and you pound down
more Twinkies, and you wonder
And THEN YOU WONDER YOU WONDER WHY
YOU'RE obese
>> [laughter]
>> and have diabetes.
Oh, by the way, you get cancer. I mean,
it's like, please, don't you understand?
The problem is people don't understand
evolutionary biology.
That that comes to their It's We have
such a lack of scientific literacy in
the United States and in the world, it's
scary. And then they always want to And
then you hear these jackasses down here
at some of the medical schools, "Oh,
can- Obesity's a genetic disease. It's a
genetic disease." What a bunch of
jackasses. You know, if they don't
understand biological evolution, right?
If it weren't for the genes that allowed
us to store store fat in the during the
Paleolithic time, you and I would never
existed in the first place. Yeah. We We
evolved as a starving species. We always
desired to have fat because who when was
the next famine? How how long was it
going to take before we could kill a
woolly mammoth and eat him? All right?
Uh and now they're blaming it on our
gene- on our genetics? I mean, these
guys have what, three functional brain
cells and they're running the medical
establishment? I says, "Give me a
break." No wonder we have such ill
health in the country. You know, it's
just amazing.
Oh man, that was funny.
>> be so coarse like that. But listen, I
have to deal with this crazy stuff all
the time. People that they think they
know. They put a white coat and a
stethoscope on, you think they know what
they're talking about. And then they say
stupid stuff like that. You say to
yourself, "Boy, don't these people
understand bio- biological evolution?"
You know, it's like you know, I I I No,
that that totally makes all the sense in
the world. That was great. I had one
quick question just to clarify on the
glucose ketone
index. So, obviously I think we all know
the types of foods that can put us into
a ketogenic state. You mentioned earlier
eggs, ground beef, you ate a ribeye that
gave you like a GKI of a 10. I think
that's what you said.
>> and you and you do exercise with it. You
got to do. And you skip meals, okay? You
can skip meals or uh you can eat very
tiny amounts during the course of the
day. So, it's it's each person must
determine for themselves
what is the best way to achieve low GKI
value. So, here's my question and now
Okay, cuz I want to expand on this a
little bit. So, it almost sounded like
it doesn't necessarily matter what you
eat, how you eat, when you eat. It just
matters what the number says on the
index. For instance, if someone can get
away with
potentially having a little bit of
fruit, but their GKI number is low
enough for them specifically, they can
get away with potentially having a
little bit of fruit. But the next person
might have a higher GKI eating fruit and
they're saying, "Okay, I'm going to have
to remove the fruit so I can get lower."
So, it all basically comes down to what
that number on the index is at, correct?
>> Yeah, and what we found when we worked
in the epilepsy field because we had to
keep those kids stable, low stable
glucose all the time, otherwise they
would have breakthrough seizures. So, we
knew exactly and we would watch what
would they would eat and you get a
breakthrough seizure and with cancer you
can't see that. With a kid with a
explosive epileptic seizure, you see it
right away. Oh my god, what's going on
with the kid? And you find out he had he
had a spike. So, what we learned with
respect to fruit uh we learned that
grapefruits uh have
keep a low low stable glucose level,
grapefruits.
But, you know, other fruits like bananas
and and these things are loaded with
sugar. And don't forget we we
genetically selected for these fruits oh
oh with our technology. We we found
genes for sugary
parts of the fruits. So, and people love
the sugar. They want to eat a sweet
banana, they want to eat a sweet orange,
they want to eat sweet pear pears and
peaches
and all this kind of stuff. Well, they
Do you ever see an original apple like
the first apple that these were bitter
little things. You had to wait for them
to get ripe and then enjoy a little bit
of them. You got apples the size of
softballs all loaded with sugar, right?
I mean, it's just people chewing it
down, right? Everybody loves it.
Check your GKI after you eat one of
those big ass apples and see what
happens. Oh my god,
I won't be eating that anymore.
So, going back to what you were saying
because then you laid out a couple other
elements. Okay, so obviously we've got
to monitor the types of foods that we're
eating, measure what we're at on GKI,
and then it comes down to you mentioned
a couple other key things. Fasting,
skipping meals, intermittent fasting,
exercise. Can you expand on the
importance of that, the frequency?
>> I think what we're learning from the
cancer patients is we're not we're not
we one shoe does not fit all. What works
for you, you could go, you know,
fasting,
you know, skip
breakfast and and and lunch or eat just
a small like I eat I just eat a handful
of
almonds and cashews and pecans almonds
and
filberts and this kind of thing.
No breakfast and you exercise your ass
off and then at night you come home and
you can eat a bigger meal. Now, that
works for me, but but it it doesn't work
for others. Some people say, "I have to
eat these tiny little morsels all day
long. I'm kind of like a grazer." And
and and and you find out it keeps your
blood sugar low and you keep your your
GKI. That person can maintain a GKI by
eating small amounts of of
low carbohydrate meals during all course
of the day. Where other people will will
will go longer term fasting and eat a
big meal
and then and then go back. So, yeah,
it's a it's a we evolved to be
variable. versatile.
So, everybody has to determine
[clears throat] for themselves when they
look at the meter. Okay, so that makes
sense. This brings me to my next
question because I would assume safely
here
you probably have people reaching out to
you on a daily basis, contacting you,
your staff in regards to "Hey, I just
got this type of cancer. What do you
recommend?" I'm sure you have people
reaching out to you very regularly.
>> I I what I do is I I send them a kit of
information. Okay. Uh um my my my hands
are raw sending these
kits out to people. This uh thousands
and thousands of people.
Um you know, and and what it is it's
educational information. And and I have
the names of people in there that are
physicians who can practice medicine uh
or who can help them guide them through
the the process. A lot of it depends on
them becoming educated. Uh uh I feel bad
for the poor patients. I feel so bad for
them.
They have no knowledge and the people
they go down to the top medical schools
have no knowledge. And it's like the
blind leading the blind. Um because both
of them lack scientific Both groups lack
scientific literacy. But it's always
what we find is the people who
understand the concepts and are willing
and motivated to do it always do better
than the people who who don't. And and
um yeah, so but you know, I and and in
the kit of information, I give them this
this information that will help them.
I'm not going to say it's going to cure
them, but it certainly can help them and
guide them through this difficult time
uh in their life using the press pulse
therapeutic strategy that we developed
here at Boston College. And they work
with a knowledgeable physician,
dietitian, or physician's assistant or
whatever and guides them and works with
them as they transgress these these
systems. And all all of our money comes
from private foundations and
philanthropy. Okay. What what I get and
I say, "If you're interested in helping
us out so we can improve this and make
it even better, please consider making a
donation to Travis Christofferson's, you
know, foundation for cancer metabolic
therapies or Anne Wethers Breast Cancer
Foundation or to the university itself."
Now, most people say, "Oh, thank you so
much for your information. I'm going to
give you prayers." You know, I I have
more I have more bundles of prayers than
you can possibly imagine, but not enough
money to run the experiments. If prayers
could pay my for my staff and the mice,
I'd be very happy, but it doesn't. Yeah.
>> So, apparently I got more prayers than I
can possibly use, you know, but I'm
going to die like everybody else,
prayers or no prayers. So,
what we need is the funding to keep our
programs going. Yeah.
>> And it's amazing. You give this And then
And these people they go down to some of
these guys who think they know what
they're talking about and they're
willing to give these guys checks for a
thousand bucks or something like this
for bogus information. You know, and I
give them I give them the scientific
information. And then we know from our
clinical trials that we're doing in
different countries, it's just amazing.
Even though you know what to do and how
to do it, there are people who who don't
want to do it. We have glioblastoma
people say, "I can't stop putting sugar
in my coffee. I have to do it every day.
And I I know I'm not going to live, I'm
going to die and I and I don't care."
Okay, well, that's that person's choice.
They can't give up sugar to save their
lives and they're going to die and they
know it and that but that's their
choice. So, no one's dragging them to do
this stuff. It's I I found it shocking
when I when I found out that my
colleagues some of my colleagues in the
glioblastoma I said, "Why are these guys
not transferring? We gave them a
Mediterranean with salmon and sardines
and Oh, they didn't like salmon and
sardines. They they couldn't get sugar
out of the coffee and they like cake.
They have to eat the cake." I said and
they died. They [laughter] died.
I said, "What's going on?" They don't
They didn't want to take charge of their
own existence. Unbelievable. Yeah, yeah,
and that that that's a shame. It sounds
like some people just have a hard time
kicking their vices, but it's the vice
that's ultimately killing them and put
them into that situation in the first
place. Yeah.
I I had
>> That's their choice. It's nobody's
telling them what to do. They make they
make the decision themselves. So, I had
a question in regards to some of the
information in the packet and when we're
done here, obviously I want to be able
to lay out some of your contact
information where people can go that are
listening to this that want to connect
with you or your staff. We'll we'll lay
all that out. But in regards to some of
the information in the packet, is there
a
protocol right out of the gate that
says, "First off, this is what you need
to do. Start a fast, reduce
carbohydrates to this level, implement
uh this amount of fat in the diet." Is
there like a basic standard protocol you
>> Yeah, yeah, uh but we can't do it we we
I send them a paper that we published on
glioblastoma, which is a protocol with
more than 25 authors, mostly MDs and
dietitians,
that we we developed here at Boston
College with my colleague Dr. Thomas
Seyfried.
It it's involved I have to be honest
with you. We we don't have a cheat sheet
for it.
Um and some people look at it and go,
"Oh my god, I can't understand it."
Yeah, you want to live, you you better
better
>> [laughter]
>> I always found you can't believe how
smart people become very short when
their life is on the line. All of a
sudden these guys that never went to
college, some of them didn't graduate
from high school. And they they they
learn so fast. It's like, "Oh my god, I
wish my advanced students could learn as
fast as these guys." But when your life
is on the line, you can learn things
real quick and you start doing it,
testing it on yourself, measuring and
doing all this kind of stuff because I'm
not a physician. I can't tell anybody
what to do or what not to do.
I I just can give them educational
information. Sure. They discuss it with
their caregivers or family members and
then they make the decisions for
themselves. And it's if you can find a
caregiver that understands the concepts
and is willing to work with you and I
have the names of certain people uh that
would be and they a lot of it they do it
by Zoom, so you don't have to go uh like
you can have blood work done at your
local hospital and send it to the
person. Now, they charge money. They I
mean, that's how they make a living. So,
they're and they're not gouging you.
They're just doing their their their
job. I can't I can't take money from
Personally, I can't take money from
anybody. They write me out a check, I
have to give it to the university or
give it to the private foundation. I
can't take any money from anybody. So,
but I give them the information and they
they will work with the information and
hopefully
it will improve significantly and and
and many of them do. Uh and whether
they're cured or not, I have no clue.
All I know is that we have people that
were given oh, you have 6 months to
live, you had a year to live and they're
out 4 and 5 years and I don't know if
they're going to live 6 years or not,
but they lived many many fold longer
than they would have been predicted had
they continued on the path that they
were on. So, and how long can they live?
I just don't know. We haven't been doing
it this long. I'm just seeing I mean I
we had a glioblastoma guy, he died
he never he never got rid of his tumor.
It was always there and he every 3 years
he had it cut out and it would grow back
very very slowly while he was under
metabolic therapy.
He was predicted to live 9 to 12 months
and he lived over 10 years
and he died from a cerebral hemorrhage
on the fourth debulking surgery. So, he
never died from the cancer. He died as a
adverse effect, but he lived. People
well, you didn't cure that guy. Well,
damn, the guy he had got married, had
two kids. He wouldn't have none of that
if he had done the radiation and the
chemo. Yeah. So, so he lived longer, but
he was never cured. But he he we were
man he was managed and I think if we can
manage cancer People say, well, Listen,
they're not going to guarantee you a
cure. A lot of things people say
well, if you are cured, yeah, there are
people that get cured if you have a
stage zero cancer. Many people with
stage four cancers are not they call
palliative care. Palliative is only to
keep you a little bit alive longer than
doing zero. Um
People People have the impression oh, he
I'm doing palliative The doctor say
you're doing palliative care. Yeah, he
said that. Do you know what that means?
It's not curative. It's just going to
try to keep you alive a little bit
longer than you would if you did
nothing. Well, why don't you do really
something and put the put the effort on
your shoulder and the palliativeness
will will improve significantly. So,
so there's so many different ways, but
you know,
so many cancer patients hear the word
cancer and they they go into a shock a
daze. They no longer are hearing what's
being told to them because they're so
shocked by the the diagnosis. But
they've they've got to have cognitive
functioning to wade through what's this
is, what are my options to survive
longer, how can I do a hybrid system
between metabolic therapy and standards
of care, does the doctor that I'm
working with understand these concepts,
can he help me? This is an educational
process on the part of both the patient
and the physician and it puts power it
gives
patient empowerment to to work with the
physician, which is part not part of the
medical system today. They want to be
the complete charge of what your destiny
is. You can't let that happen. You have
to be in you have to take charge as well
besides them. So, it's a work in
progress and it's improving as we speak.
Awesome. That's that's that's so good to
know and that's really cool that you
have um essentially designed this
information to give to people that are
looking for alternative therapies and um
it's that's awesome, Professor Siefried.
>> Well, you've got to real you've got to
be careful because people say or
alternative therapies and a lot of
that's bogus crap. Unless you're
targeting your glucose and glutamine
while you're in nutritional ketosis,
you they can say well, if you can say
well, I have this supplement, I have
that supplement, I have this. Well, tell
me how it's going to target glucose and
glutamine. Well, I can't really be sure.
What do you mean you can't be sure? You
don't understand how your supplement's
going to work? Oh, I've given it to a
lot of Now, some of these supplements we
don't mind it's in there as long as it
doesn't harm the patient. You get a
placebo effect. The guy thinks he's
taking something oh my god, you know,
it's not harming him. It's not doing it.
It's a mindset. But you really want
things that target the glucose and
glutamine cuz that's the hammer. That's
what you that's what's going to go go
after the tumor. So, if you have a
supplement that's known to tar target
one of the one of the the glycolysis or
glutaminolysis pathways and it's not
going to harm you,
but work with you, then that probably
will have some therapeutic benefit.
So, the key here is targeting the
glucose and the glutamine
simultaneously.
>> Simultaneously. Well, while in the state
of nutritional ketosis. Got it.
>> Low GKI
and then you take embendazole
fenbendazole at different concentrations
when and the physician works with you
and you work yourself through it. And if
you want to take a little doxorubicin, a
little radiation, a little
immunotherapy, Katruda, Opdivo, but you
low doses is in and and smaller amounts
and you manage it that way.
>> I know we're coming up here on time,
Professor Siefried. Want to be
respectful of your time. We'll be we'll
get you wrapped up here in a few
minutes.
I just had one final question here
before we start
wrapping up. So,
if someone is diagnosed with cancer, no
matter the stage or the type,
from your opinion, what are the top or
first three things they should do
in order to give them the best chance to
survive? Well, I I think you have to
talk to people who work on it and again,
that's hard to say.
There's no easy answer for that because
a lot of the people who who come Some
people who come when they're first
diagnosed have the best outcome because
your their body is still fairly healthy
and they
>> You catch it early, basically. Yeah, and
some guy who's in hospice
wants to now do a complete metabolic I
mean, it's going to be hard.
We've but I we've had some people that
were given 1 month to live and and they
have done well. Um some of them don't.
You know, it's it's like if you're first
diagnosed like everybody says oh, you're
going to do really well, but if you have
a stage stage four cancer even on first
diagnosis, it's it's usually it's
usually a very difficult disease, but
but the the way we're doing it now and
the it makes it worse a lot of times.
Yeah, you oh, you can get rid of it for
a year or two then it comes back and you
take toxic but you got to work with the
metabolic and the and and the standard
of care together. You have to know how
to integrate the two current systems to
make them both maximally effective. And
unfortunately, the field has yet to come
to understand that cancer is a metabolic
disease and that will make them have the
desire to work with standards of care in
a in a new metabolic state because
ultimately the patient is going to is
going to do a hell of a lot better.
Excellent. Well said. This was
fantastic, Professor. Anything new
coming up for you?
Uh we have a big well, our paper under
review for the GKI index for managing
all major chronic diseases as well as
cancer. So, we'll have the big
color-coded chart for people to look at.
We'll tell them how to do it, what to do
and neuropsychiatric problems, dementia,
cardiovascular disease. It's
unbelievable what you can do when you
know what to do.
Uh and then we have a big paper that'll
be coming out for high-grade glioma for
children. This is one of the most tragic
aspects of of cancer when you see little
kids
that are brutalized by the system,
given high-dose steroids and and cutting
out parts of their brain and and and we
we put together a diet a diet drug
cocktail uh for managing um high-grade
gliomas
and and we think that is that's going to
be if they do it, it'll be a something
the most
most important thing in the history of
of high managing little kids with
glioma.
If they if the if the system recognizes
that it's a metabolic disease and
they're willing to do this because these
little children have so much to gain
from this. And we have a big paper
coming out in in Science Reports
Medicine, a top journal,
where we have done the preclinical
studies and it can be easily translated
over to the clinic, the pediatric
oncology clinics. So, we have things
that are coming down and we're
constantly working on new cancers,
pancreatic cancer,
breast cancers because they all have a
similar problem. So, once we perfect all
of our our our our our upper strategies,
I think we're going to have really we're
going to keep the cancer won't be so
traumatic for people to get diagnosed
from this. Yeah. The biggest problem is
I crap, I got to get myself in shape.
I'm I
going to feel better. We have people who
emerge from the treatment they feel
better than they did before they started
the treatment. They're healthy.
Everything in their body gets healthier
and the and the cancer gets managed. And
what's wrong with that? You know,
nothing wrong with that. Yeah. No, it
gives them a better life. I think that's
fantastic. And then where can people
find you online, get in contact with
you, all of that?
>> Well, you know, we we have a big media
presence on a lot of things.
You know, we get donations to private
Travis Christofferson's foundation,
which a lot of people like to. Even here
at the university, we have university
people.
I always find it remarkable when they
give Dana-Farber down the block here.
They oh, we give $50 million to
Dana-Farber. I said, we're the ones that
Oh, we give you $10, but we give
them $50 million.
Something's wrong here.
Yeah, that's the whole thing. And we
look for people who and we when we
publish the papers and people would like
to be acknowledged for their
contribution.
Uh so, when you read my scientific
papers that are published, you look at
the acknowledgement section in the paper
and you say, who the hell are all these
people and all these things? Well, those
are the guys who are giving us the money
to do the research. Yeah. And some
philanthropists say I don't want to be
acknowledged at all. I just want to know
that I'm going to be part of a of a new
paradigm, a new movement and I just know
I'd like to be part of that. I don't
want anybody to know about it. I said,
fine. Well, we know about it. We keep
pushing the research and moving the
boundaries further and further out. It's
going to happen. There's no question
about it. What I'm talking is going to
be the new way to manage cancer and
chronic diseases once the word gets out
and people start doing it for
themselves.
Do you have a link that you could give
to me that I could put into the show
notes that can direct people to donate,
give, any of that?
>> Yeah, I'll send it to you. Okay,
perfect. And I'll put that all all into
the show notes and I can
>> I'll send you some of our papers as
well. The press pulse therapeutic
strategy and some of these others. And
and case reports. I'll give you our case
reports. You can look at the the read
the case what the people did, how they
did it and see see what they did for
glioblastoma, for breast cancer and
these kinds of Of course, but for sure
and I can put all of the links to those
in the show notes. So, those so those
will all be available for everyone Yeah,
yeah. Again, Professor Seyfried, thank
you so much for your time. This was
amazing and an honor to honestly meet
you here. So, I appreciate you taking
the time to chat with me. And to
everyone else listening to the Low Carb
Consultant podcast, we'll catch you guys
on the next one. Take care. Okay, bye
now. Thank you.